---
layout: post
title: MC3
excerpt: "MC3"
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
sitemap: false
permalink: /
---



## **Natural Computation research group**

---

### Description

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
Natural computation is a field of computer science. It is based on the links
between informatics and other disciplines, mainly physics and biology. On the
one hand, it aims at abstracting natural phenomena in order to develop new
computational paradigms, or deepening the study of well-known nature-inspired
models of computation. On the other hand, it aims at using these models of
computation in order to achieve a better understanding of the phenomena at
hand, with the hope to unravel some of the underlying fundamental laws.
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
The CANA research group (CANA is for ''CAlcul NAturel'', a French acronym for
natural computation), in particular, seeks to capture at the formal level
some of the fundamental paradigms of theoretical biology and physics, via the
models and approaches of theoretical computer science and discrete mathematics.
These approaches and their underlying methods, that we develop also per se,
rest on the study of interacting entities. Most often in the models that
we study, each of the constitutive entities is elementary and can only
take a finite number of states. Moreover, they interact only locally with
respect to the network on which they lie in discrete time steps. In spite
of their apparent simplicity, these discrete models are able to capture
the essence of the dynamics of numerous natural systems, upon which they
shed a new light. For instance, thanks to their high level of
abstraction, these models provide a qualitative representation of
biological regulation networks, of particle propagation in quantum
physics, or even of the emergence of waves in sandpiles. Beyond their
ability to grasp natural phenomena, the models are also being studied for
their own sake, in terms of their intrinsic dynamical, computability and
complexity properties.
</p> 

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
To define nature-inspired discrete models; to demonstrate their relevance; to
tame the complex behaviours that they generate by means of rigorous
mathematical results; to use this to better understand real systems: these are
the main concerns of CANA research team.
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
Depending on the situation, the important features of the model can be of
static (syntactic) or dynamical (semantic) nature. Moreover, the network of
entities may be regular or not, the interaction rules may be deterministic,
probabilistic, synchronous or asynchronous... We study these models
and their variations both for their representational and computational
abilities.
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
The methods used come from discrete dynamical system theory, combinatorics,
complexity and computability theories, and non-monotonic logic, linear
algebra, quantum computing and quantum information.
</p>

### Keywords

(Non-)deterministic, probabilistic or quantum discrete dynamical systems;  
Interaction networks: automata networks, quantum and classical cellular automata, quantum walks, sandpiles;  
Inspirations from and applications to molecular biology, medicine and physics.  

